Welcome to module three,
cryptocurrency as an asset class.
So first I'm going to
introduce the module.
Lecture two, we'll discuss risk
and return to cryptocurrency.
Lecture three, will be
some background on
asset allocation.
Finally lecture four, will be
asset allocation
with cryptocurrency.
So, does cryptocurrency have
a place in the portfolio
of an investor?
Can we use the concepts
we have developed in
the previous modules to
answer this question?
Now recall the reactions to
cryptocurrency in
the first module.
Jamie Dimond says. "A fraud,
worse than tulip bulbs."
Warren Buffett, says.
"Probably rat poison squared".
"Crypto is the mother of
all scams and now
busted bubbles",
is from the title of
Nouriel Roubini's
congressional testimony.
So I'm going to
discuss two views of
cryptocurrency as
part of a portfolio,
both of them used
traditional finance.
So what would be
one traditional finance
view of cryptocurrency?
Let's take the Capital
Asset Pricing Model,
one of the great achievements
of finance and still
the benchmark theory
for expected returns.
According to the capital
asset pricing model,
which I will discuss
further in lecture three,
investors should hold
risky securities
according to their
market weighted values.
Now, the CAPM is
a pretty good witness
the success of index funds.
In fact, you could
say that the CAPM
really created index funds.
What does the CAPM
say about crypto?
Well, the most straightforward
interpretation is that
one should hold
zero cryptocurrency.
That's because cash or currency,
has transaction value
but isn't connected
to some asset that
creates underlying value,
there simply mediums of exchange.
So the idea that the CAPM would
have about really all currencies,
that you really shouldn't
hold it in your portfolio,
it's what we in economics call
a zero net supply security.
You really just should hold
as little as possible
for transaction needs.
That's a traditional view
coming from the CAPM.
Now a related idea is
something called
the Gordon Growth Model.
The Gordon Growth Model is
a benchmark method for
value and companies.
What it does is it values
any asset based on
its cash flows,
and you can connect it with
the capital asset pricing model
but you don't need to.
So one idea is that
perhaps one could value
cryptocurrency using
the Gordon Growth Model,
and then you could decide is
Crypto over or under-valued.
However, the Gordon Growth
Model values companies based
on their dividends and obviously
currency pays no dividends.
We're going to discuss this
further in lecture four.
So thus the Gordon Growth Model
and the CAPM are
both in line with
the views expressed at
the start of the lecture,
cryptocurrency should
be worth zero.
However, suppose we take
a purely data-driven perspective.
Let's construct returns
on cryptocurrency and
look at the empirical properties
of these returns.
Let's treat these returns
as if they were returns
on any traditional
investment and ask,
if we saw an investment with
returns like these would
we want to hold it as
part of our portfolio?
That's what I'm going to
develop in lecture two.
So both of these views
are traditional
finance viewpoints,
and we will see that they
are at odds with each other.
Now they each have drawbacks.
The first view that
I've described using
the capital asset pricing model
and the Gordon Growth Model,
is a theory-driven view,
and we might be missing something
important in our assumptions.
View two, is a purely
data-driven view,
but there might be
serious limitations to the data.
So we might ask, is
there a third view?
Well, we'll return to
this a bit at the end.